AMP-109095 add bulk model mangement doc (#325)
amplitude/amplitude-docs: content/collections/warehouse_native_amplitude/en/warehouse-native-bulk-model-management.md

---
id: 131771f8-ba6f-4492-a6bd-a0105e6a71ff
blueprint: warehouse_native_amplitude
title: 'Warehouse Native Bulk Model Management'
this_article_will_help_you:
  - 'efficiently manage multiple models in batch'
landing: false
exclude_from_sitemap: false
updated_by: 36df5bf6-28d6-4b56-9bba-1c675073870d
updated_at: 1728602881
---

> Bulk Model Management is a feature we build to help our customers efficiently manage ther Warehouse Native models without going through manual clicks using the UI. Instead of managing one model at a time, by following the model specification, Warehouse Native customers are able to edit multile models using a config file and create or update all models in one batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bulk Model Management is a feature we build to help our customers efficiently manage their Warehouse Native models. Instead of managing one model at a time, by following the model specification, Warehouse Native customers are able to edit multiple models using a config file and create or update models all at once.
```

## Approach

> ### Why YMAL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why YAML
```

> A config file is a YAML-based file that customers can use to define their models and upload it to commit changes. YAML is a human-friendly format which is easy to read and edit. We expect our customers to use code editor or any text editor or even AI to edit the model definition configuration to have the changes they want to make.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A config file is a YAML-based file that customers can use to define their models and upload it to commit changes. YAML is a human-friendly format that is easy to read and edit. We expect our customers to use a text editor or even AI to edit the model definition configuration to generate the changes they want to make.
```

### Supported operations

> We support both creation and update using the config file. If the model `name` exists, we will update the existing model based on the `name`, if the `name` doesn't exists, we will create a new model with that `name`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We support both creation and update using the config file. If the model `name` exists, we update the existing model based on the `name`, if the `name` doesn't exist, we create a new model with that `name`. 
```

> ### What happens to the Models not included in the config file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What happens to the models that are not included in the config file
```

> The model doesn't exist in the config file uploaded won't be touched, deleted or changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The models that don't exist in the config file will not be altered.
```

{{partial:admonition type="note" heading="What happens to models that aren't in the config file?"}}
Amplitude ignores and doesn't alter models that aren't in the config file.
{{/partial:admonition}}

### Supported model types

Warehouse-native Amplitude Bulk Model Management supports these model types:

- Events
- User properties (current)  
- User properties (historical)
- Group properties (current) 
- Group properties (historical)
- Event properties  

## Create the configuration file

To get started:

> - Download an example configuration file from the Amplitude UI by simply clicking `Update/Create Via YAML` button and then the `Download YAML File` button in the pop-up window if you haven't had any model.

Author: added some simple instructions here 
@markzegarelli

> - Download an example configuration file from the Amplitude UI by simply clicking `Update/Create Via YAML` button and then the `Download YAML File` button in the pop-up window if you haven't had any model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Download an example configuration file from the Amplitude. On the *Data > Sources* tab of your warehouse-native project, click **Update/Create via YAML**. Click **Download YAML File** to generate a YAML file with all your project's models.
```

> - you can follow the instruction below to create a new config file to start with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- you can follow the instructions below to create a new config file to start with.
```

> - Download all existing models using from Amplitude to a config file to start with by clicking `Update/Create Via YAML` button and then the `Download YAML File` button in the pop-up window if you have had models in Amplitude.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is made redundant by the previous bullet.

### How to apply the changes

> You can use the UI to upload the updated config file, all changes will be commited to the database in one transaction if everything is correct. The changes will be automatically rolled back if error happens. So it's an ALL or Nothing scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the UI to upload the updated config file, all changes will be committed to the database in one transaction. The changes will be automatically rolled back if there is any error.
